doc/install.fedora.markdown, before:

# Paperwork installation on GNU/Linux Fedora


## Package

Currently, there is no official Fedora package for Paperwork.

Note that Paperwork depends on [Pillow](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Pillow/).
Pillow may conflict with the package python-imaging (aka PIL).


## Build dependencies

    # Python3 dependencies
    $ sudo dnf install python3-pip python3-setuptools python3-devel 

    # Pillow build dependencies
    $ sudo dnf install libjpeg-turbo-devel zlib-devel redhat-rpm-config

    # PyEnchant dependencies
    $ sudo dnf install python3-enchant enchant-devel

Note that `yum` is deprecated since Fedora 22 and replaced by `dnf`. If
you use an older Fedora, replace instances of `dnf` above by `yum`. The
rest of the commands are the same.

## System-wide installation

    $ sudo python3 -m pip install paperwork

Some dependencies cannot be installed automatically. You can find all the
missing dependencies by running 'paperwork-chkdeps'.

    $ paperwork-shell chkdeps paperwork_backend
    $ paperwork-shell chkdeps paperwork

Since Paperwork 1.2, you can add a Paperwork entry in your desktop menus
with the following command:

    $ paperwork-shell install


## Running Paperwork

If you used "paperwork-shell install", a shortcut should be available in the
menus of your window manager (you may have to log out first).

You can also start Paperwork by running the command 'paperwork'.

Enjoy :-)

Commit message:

Settings: Switch from Pyinsane to Libinsane
Signed-off-by: Jerome Flesch <jflesch@openpaper.work>

doc/install.fedora.markdown, after:

# Paperwork installation on GNU/Linux Fedora


## Package

Currently, there is no official Fedora package for Paperwork.

Note that Paperwork depends on [Pillow](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Pillow/).
Pillow may conflict with the package python-imaging (aka PIL).


## Build dependencies

    # Python3 dependencies
    $ sudo dnf install python3-pip python3-setuptools python3-devel

    # Pillow build dependencies
    $ sudo dnf install libjpeg-turbo-devel zlib-devel redhat-rpm-config

    # PyEnchant dependencies
    $ sudo dnf install python3-enchant enchant-devel


## System-wide installation


Prior to installing Paperwork, you have to install
[Libinsane](https://doc.openpaper.work/libinsane/latest/libinsane/quickstart.html)
manually.


    $ sudo python3 -m pip install paperwork

Some dependencies cannot be installed automatically. You can find all the
missing dependencies by running 'paperwork-chkdeps'.

    $ paperwork-shell chkdeps paperwork_backend
    $ paperwork-shell chkdeps paperwork

Since Paperwork 1.2, you can add a Paperwork entry in your desktop menus
with the following command:

    $ paperwork-shell install


## Running Paperwork

If you used "paperwork-shell install", a shortcut should be available in the
menus of your window manager (you may have to log out first).

You can also start Paperwork by running the command 'paperwork'.

Enjoy :-)
